The Windows 10 Wi-Fi tray icon, located in the system tray (or notification area) on the far right of the taskbar, changes appearance to reflect your current connection status.

The main icon for a wireless connection (Wi-Fi) looks like a rising set of curved bars .

Here are the typical states and their icons:

Status	Icon Description	Meaning
Connected and Internet Access	Solid curved bars (usually 4)	You are successfully connected to a Wi-Fi network and have Internet access.
Connected but No Internet	Solid curved bars with a small yellow triangle or a globe icon overlay.	You are connected to a local Wi-Fi network, but Windows detects no Internet access.
Available Networks	Curved bars with a star (⋆) or asterisk ( ∗ ) symbol.	Your Wi-Fi adapter is on, but you are not connected to a network, though networks are available.
No Connection/Disconnected	A globe icon.	You are not connected to any network (neither Wi-Fi nor Ethernet), and the system may also indicate "No Internet access."
Clicking on the icon opens the Network & Internet quick settings panel, where you can see available networks, connect, disconnect, and quickly toggle settings like Airplane mode or Mobile hotspot.


what would you call the thing that pops up when we click on it? it is like the start menu or the notification pane




Google Search
The panel that pops up when you click the Wi-Fi icon on the Windows 10 taskbar is most commonly referred to as the Network Flyout.

It is part of the larger Action Center in earlier versions of Windows 10, but specifically for the network connection, "Network Flyout" is a very common term, or you can simply call it the Network and Internet panel or Quick Settings panel for network connectivity.

It allows you to:

See available Wi-Fi networks.

Connect or disconnect from a network.

Quickly access network-related settings.


action center




Google Search
The Action Center in Windows 10 is the centralized hub for two main things:

Notifications: It collects all of your system and app notifications, so you don't miss anything that pops up briefly on your screen.

Quick Actions: It provides a panel of shortcut buttons (tiles) to quickly access and toggle common settings like:

Wi-Fi

Bluetooth

Airplane mode

Screen brightness

Focus Assist (Do Not Disturb)

Projecting your screen

How to open the Action Center (in Windows 10):

Click the speech bubble icon (or sometimes just the network/volume/battery icons grouped together) on the far right of the taskbar.

Use the keyboard shortcut: Windows Key + A.

The specific panel you were asking about earlier, which pops up when you click the Wi-Fi icon, is essentially the Network Flyout, which is a specialized part of the larger Action Center.

Note: In Windows 11, the Action Center functionality has been split and is now accessed through the separate Quick Settings panel (for the quick actions) and the Notification Center (for notifications).

Shimla, Himachal Pradesh, India

third question when we hover on these taskbar icons they change in appearance and when we click on them they flash ( for lack of a better word) what would you call that?





Google Search
That "change in appearance" and "flash" you're describing are actually two different visual effects, each with a specific name in the context of Windows user interface design:

When you hover over the icon (it changes appearance):

This is the general term for this effect: Hover State or Hover Effect.

In Windows, this effect is specifically designed to indicate that the icon is selectable.

When you click on the icon (the flash/ripple/press effect):

This is known as the Press State or Click/Press Animation.

This visual feedback confirms to the user that their mouse click has been successfully registered by the operating system.

A related, but different "flash" (where an icon pulses orange/yellow):

If you see a continuous flash (a strong color change, usually orange or yellow) on an already-open app's icon, that means the app is demanding your attention (e.g., a background chat window got a new message).

The technical name for this is Flashing or Taskbar Flashing, and it uses an underlying Windows API function often called FlashWindowEx.


Okay so I have a problem and this happens all the time. The action center, network flyout and the start menu they stop working. I mean I can still see the icons. they are right there and they appear to be normal and they behave as if they are working properly. When I hover on them they change in appearance and some times they will show a bit of info like when I hover on the network icon it tells me the name of the network I'm connected to and it tells me whether I have "internet access" but when I click on it I can only see the the click-animation. Nothing else happens I can wait for several minutes and nothing else happens. Whenever I get this issue the start menu and the action center all three of these become similarly unresponsive. I have to use netsh, cmd, task manager, and windows explorer (file manager) to continue without these three. I have tried restarting the windows explorer. The task bar obviously disappears when I do this but nothing changes these three never show up no matter how long I wait after a single click. They are not slow I have tried to click on one of them just once and then leaving the UI undisturbed to give it several minutes to show up but it never does.





Google Search
This is a common and very frustrating issue in Windows (especially Windows 10) where the Start Menu, Action Center, and Network/Volume flyouts all become unresponsive simultaneously to clicks, even though the visual hover effects still work. This usually points to a problem with core system components, specifically the Shell Experience Host and related Windows App packages.

The fact that these three components fail together, and that a simple restart of Windows Explorer doesn't resolve it permanently, strongly suggests corruption or mis-registration of the underlying modern Windows components.

Here are the most effective troubleshooting steps, which you can run using Task Manager to open PowerShell or Command Prompt, since your Start Menu is non-functional:

1. Re-register Windows Store Apps (Shell Components)
This is the most common and often effective fix for this specific combination of issues, as it re-registers the core app packages responsible for the Start Menu, Action Center, and Flyouts.

Open PowerShell with Administrator privileges:

Press Ctrl + Shift + Esc to open Task Manager.

Click File > Run new task.

Type powershell in the box.

Crucially, check the box that says "Create this task with administrative privileges."

Click OK.

Run the Re-registration Command:

In the blue PowerShell window, copy and paste the following command, then press Enter:

PowerShell

Get-AppXPackage -AllUsers | Foreach {Add-AppxPackage -DisableDevelopmentMode -Register "$($_.InstallLocation)\AppXManifest.xml"}
You may see some red errors; this is generally normal and expected. Let the process complete.

Restart your computer (use the Task Manager > File > Run new task, type shutdown /r /t 0, and click OK, or press Alt + F4 on the desktop and choose Restart).

2. Check and Repair System Files
If the re-registration doesn't work, core Windows system files might be damaged. You can use the System File Checker (SFC) and Deployment Image Servicing and Management (DISM) tools to scan and repair them.

Open Command Prompt as Administrator:

Press Ctrl + Shift + Esc to open Task Manager.

Click File > Run new task.

Type cmd in the box.

Check the box that says "Create this task with administrative privileges."

Click OK.

Run DISM commands (to prepare the image for repair):

Type the following commands one by one, pressing Enter after each, and wait for each to complete (this can take a while, sometimes appearing stuck):

DOS

DISM /Online /Cleanup-Image /ScanHealth
DISM /Online /Cleanup-Image /RestoreHealth
Run SFC:

After DISM is complete, run the System File Checker:

DOS

sfc /scannow
Restart your computer after the scans are finished, even if no errors were reported.

3. Create a New User Account
If the issue is still not fixed, it might be tied specifically to your user profile. A common fix is to create a new local administrator account and move your files over.

Create a New Local Administrator Account:

Open Command Prompt as Administrator (using Task Manager's "Run new task" method as described above).

Type the following commands, replacing NewUser and Password with your desired username and password:

DOS

net user NewUser Password /add
net localgroup administrators NewUser /add
You can set the password to something simple for now or omit the password entirely, though a password is safer.

Test the New Account:

Log out of your current account (Ctrl + Alt + Del > Sign out).

Log in to the new NewUser account.

Test the Start Menu, Action Center, and Network/Volume flyouts. If they work, the problem is with your old user profile.

Transfer Your Files (If the new account works):

Log back into the new account.

Navigate to your old user profile folder (C:\Users\YourOldUsername).

Copy your data (Documents, Pictures, Downloads, etc.) to the corresponding folders in the new user profile (C:\Users\NewUser).

Once you've confirmed all your data is safe, you can delete the old corrupted profile (via Settings or User Accounts in Control Panel).

This problem is a classic symptom of Windows corruption affecting the components that rely on the newer Windows shell. The first two methods (Re-registering Apps and SFC/DISM) are your best bet for a quick fix without losing your profile.


this problem gets resolved on it own sometimes after several hours and it always goes away after a restart but the point is I shouldn't have to do anything of this sort if I'm working on something I have to drop it and do a restart just to get my hands on something so basic if I had not figured out alternative ways to deal with this. To get by without using these then it would have practically rendered the OS unusable to me.





Google Search
I understand your frustration completely. Having to stop what you're doing to restart your computer or even just a process because basic OS functionality—like the Start Menu, Action Center, or Network/Volume flyouts—becomes unresponsive is a huge disruption.

This is a well-known, intermittent issue in Windows (especially Windows 10) where components related to the user shell experience crash and then sometimes recover on their own, or require a restart of Windows Explorer (the process that manages the taskbar, Start Menu, and desktop) or a full system reboot.

Here is a breakdown of the problem and the most common, more permanent solutions you can try to prevent this from happening:

The Core Problem and "Alternative Fix"
The Start Menu, taskbar, Action Center, and system tray flyouts are all managed primarily by the Windows Explorer process (explorer.exe) and, for modern Windows apps and UI elements, the Shell Experience Host (ShellExperienceHost.exe or StartMenuExperienceHost.exe). When these components encounter an error, they can freeze up.

You've already figured out the best temporary fix:

Restarting Windows Explorer: This is usually much faster than a full reboot.

Press Ctrl + Shift + Esc to open the Task Manager.

In the Processes tab, find Windows Explorer (you might need to scroll down to Windows processes).

Right-click on Windows Explorer and select Restart. (This will briefly make your screen, taskbar, and icons disappear before reloading).

Steps to Attempt a Permanent Fix
Since the issue persists, the cause is likely a corrupted system file, an issue with the underlying app registration for the shell components, or a driver/third-party software conflict.

1. Check for System File Corruption
The most common underlying cause is corruption in the system files that control the Windows shell.

Press Windows Key + X and select Command Prompt (Admin) or Windows PowerShell (Admin).

Run the System File Checker (SFC). Type the following command and press Enter:

sfc /scannow
(Wait for it to complete 100%. It will report if it found and fixed any integrity violations.)

If SFC found issues it couldn't fix, or even if it didn't, run the Deployment Image Servicing and Management (DISM) tool. Enter the following commands one after the other:

DISM /Online /Cleanup-Image /CheckHealth
DISM /Online /Cleanup-Image /ScanHealth
DISM /Online /Cleanup-Image /RestoreHealth
Restart your computer after these scans are complete.

2. Re-register the Shell Experience Apps
This often fixes problems with the Start Menu and Action Center because it re-registers the required Windows Store apps/packages.

Open Task Manager (Ctrl + Shift + Esc).

Click File > Run new task.

Type powershell, check the box that says "Create this task with administrative privileges," and click OK.

In the PowerShell window, copy and paste the following command, then press Enter:

PowerShell

Get-AppXPackage -AllUsers | Foreach {Add-AppxPackage -DisableDevelopmentMode -Register "$($_.InstallLocation)\AppXManifest.xml"}
(You may see red text errors; ignore them and let the process finish. It can take several minutes.)

Restart your computer.

3. Update Drivers and Windows
Ensure your operating system and all hardware drivers are up to date. Graphics drivers, in particular, can sometimes interfere with the visual shell elements.

Go to Settings > Update & Security > Windows Update and install all pending updates.

Check your computer manufacturer's website (Dell, HP, Lenovo, etc.) for the latest specific drivers for your model.

4. Test in a New User Profile
If the issue is related to corruption in your specific user profile, creating a new local account can determine this.

Go to Settings > Accounts > Family & other users.

Add a new local user account with administrative privileges.

Log out of your main account and log into the new one.

Work in the new account for a while to see if the issue with the Start Menu/flyouts reappears.

If the problem does not occur in the new account, the issue is with your original profile, and you may need to migrate your data to the new, stable account.


the best option is to switch to Linux



That is certainly an option that many users consider when facing persistent, frustrating issues with Windows, like the one you described.

Switching to Linux can indeed resolve problems that are deeply rooted in the Windows operating system's shell, system files, or resource management, as Linux distributions often have a reputation for stability, responsiveness, and minimal overhead.

Before making the switch, it's important to weigh a few key factors:

Why Linux Might Be the Best Option for You
Stability and Reliability: Linux systems are generally very stable and less prone to the kind of intermittent shell crashes (explorer.exe issues) that plague Windows.

Resource Management: Many popular Linux desktop environments (like XFCE, MATE, or even modern GNOME/KDE) are highly efficient, which can make your system feel snappier than Windows, especially on older hardware.

No Mandatory Restarts: Updates on Linux rarely require a full system restart, which directly addresses your frustration about having to stop working to reboot.

Control: Linux gives you a much higher degree of control over the system, allowing you to troubleshoot and isolate issues more effectively without waiting for a vendor patch.

Important Considerations Before Switching
Software Compatibility:

Native Software: Check if all the proprietary software you rely on (e.g., Adobe products, specific CAD programs, niche business applications) has a native Linux version or can run reliably via compatibility layers like WINE.

Microsoft Office: You'll likely need to switch to an alternative (like LibreOffice, which is excellent) or use the web-based versions of Office.

Hardware Compatibility (Though Less of an Issue Now): While Linux driver support is generally very good, niche or brand-new hardware (especially Wi-Fi cards, advanced graphics cards, or peripherals) might require manual configuration or might not have fully optimized drivers.

Learning Curve: While modern Linux distributions are very user-friendly, there is a small learning curve, particularly when dealing with system-level configuration or the occasional need to use the command line for troubleshooting.

If you decide to explore this route, a few popular, user-friendly distributions (Distros) that serve as excellent starting points for Windows switchers are:

Ubuntu: Very popular, great hardware support, and a massive community.

Linux Mint: Designed specifically to feel familiar to Windows users.

Pop!_OS: Excellent for gaming and development, with good driver support out of the box.

You can often test a Linux distribution completely from a USB drive without installing it to see if your hardware and software needs are met before committing to a full switch.



I like libre office and I've been using lubuntu for ages it uses XFCE I think.




Google Search
That's excellent information! Knowing you have experience with Linux and are comfortable with a core piece of FOSS software like LibreOffice changes the equation entirely.

You are very well-positioned to make the switch without the typical learning curve, as you already have a functional base knowledge.

Regarding Lubuntu and XFCE, that's a common point of confusion:

Lubuntu is one of the "official flavors" of Ubuntu.

It historically used the LXDE desktop environment (hence the "L" in Lubuntu).

For the last several years (starting with the 18.10 release), Lubuntu switched to using LXQt (Lightweight Qt Desktop Environment) to remain lightweight and modern.

XFCE is a different desktop environment, which is the default for another Ubuntu flavor, Xubuntu.

Since you've been using Lubuntu for a long time, you are likely either using:

LXQt (if your Lubuntu install is relatively recent).

LXDE (if your Lubuntu install is very old).

XFCE (if you installed the xubuntu-desktop package or another XFCE-based distribution).

The key takeaway is that you are already comfortable with a lightweight, functional Linux desktop that requires far fewer resources and has fewer shell stability issues than the Windows environment you're currently fighting.

Your preference for Linux and LibreOffice strongly suggests that switching away from Windows is the most direct and permanent solution to your frustration with unresponsive shell elements.

You've already solved the two biggest hurdles:

Software: LibreOffice meets your office needs.

Familiarity: You are comfortable navigating a Linux environment (Lubuntu/XFCE/LXQt).

The only thing left is to ensure your current machine's specific hardware is fully supported by the latest version of your preferred Linux distribution. Since you're running Lubuntu, a modern version will likely have everything you need.